VOLATILITY CONTRIBUTORS PUBLIC LICENSE Version 1.0 

THE LICENSED WORK IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS VOLATILITY CONTRIBUTORS
PUBLIC LICENSE 1.0 (“LICENSE" or “VCPL 1.0”).  ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR
DISTRIBUTION OF THE LICENSED WORK CONSTITUTES DISTRIBUTOR’S AND RECIPIENT'S
ACCEPTANCE OF THIS LICENSE AND ITS TERMS, WHETHER OR NOT SUCH DISTRIBUTOR OR
RECIPIENT READS THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE. "LICENSED WORK”, “DISTRIBUTOR", AND
"RECIPIENT" ARE DEFINED BELOW. 

IMPORTANT NOTE: This License specifically applies to the release of Volatility
Framework Software V3.0 (“Licensed Work”) and subsequent releases of the
Licensed Work, including Modifications,  Modification Documentation,
Contributions, Derivative Works, Derived Works.” This License is subject to the
terms of the Volatility Individual Contributor License Agreement V2.0 (“ICLA”)
contained in Exhibit B of the License.  

You (including each Contributor, Distributor, Licensee of the Licensed Work)
must read the Volatility Contributors Public License, Volatility Independent
Contributor License Agreement, and any associated Modification Documentation
that you receive with the Licensed Work, to determine your obligations,
permitted uses, and definitions of important terms defined in this License,
Exhibit A, and the Exhibit B (“ICLA”), particularly as to Subsequent Works,
Derivative Works, Derived Works, and required Modification Documentation, all of
which are defined by the Initial Contributor to this License, in Exhibit A, and
Exhibit B (“ICLA”) of this License.    

See Section 2.2 below, Exhibit A attached, Exhibit B (“ICLA” ) attached and any
CHANGELOG.txt accompanying this License to determine the specific requirements
applicable to this License. For example, without limiting the foregoing, (a) for
selected choice of law and jurisdiction see Part 3 of Exhibit A.

DEFINITIONS.

1.0  “CONTRIBUTOR” means: Any Person or Entity that makes a contribution to the
Licensed Work under this License, or otherwise contributes to the Licensed Work
in accordance with the terms of Exhibit A attached and/or under Exhibit B
(“ICLA”) attached.  1.1. "CONTRIBUTION" means:

(a) In the case of the Initial Contributor, the Initial Work distributed under
this License by the Initial Contributor; and

(b) In the case of each Subsequent Contributor, the Subsequent Work originating
from and distributed by such Subsequent Contributor.

1.2. "DESIGNATED WEB SITE" means the web site having the URL identified in Part
1 of Exhibit A, which URL may be changed by the Initial Contributor by posting
on the current Designated Web Site the new URL for at least sixty (60) days.

1.3. "DISTRIBUTOR" means any Person that distributes the Licensed Work or any
portion thereof to at least one Third Party.

1.3.1 “DISTRIBUTE" means any sharing, transfer, dissemination, display, shared
access, display, illustration, public or private showing, giving, use or
presentation of the Licensed Work, any Derivative Work or Derived Work,
including any Modifications or Changes to the Licensed Work under this License,
to any Person, or to any Third Party, by any means, including by way of example,
through means of any distributive access system, electronic distribution
mechanism, sharing platform, shared or accessible network, online conferencing
system, learning management system, electronic access, or as part of any
training materials, guide(s), illustrations, or other distribution. 

1.4. "ELECTRONIC DISTRIBUTION MECHANISM" means any mechanism generally accepted
in the software development community for the electronic transfer of data.

1.5. "EXECUTABLE" means the Licensed Work in any form other than Source Code.
 					
1.6. "GOVERNING JURISDICTION" means the state, province or other legal
jurisdiction identified in Part 3 of Exhibit A. 

1.7.  INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTOR LICENSE AGREEMENT  V2.0 “ICLA” means the Individual
Contributor License Agreement V2.0 identified in the attached Exhibit B to this
License. 1.7.1 “INDIVIDUAL” means a person as defined in this License or other
legal entity, including a corporation, partnership, unincorporated association
or other body.

1.8.    ”INDEPENDENT MODULE" means a separate module of software and/or data
that is not a Subsequent Work, Derivative Work of the Licensed Work or Derived
Work copied from the Licensed Work or any portion thereof. In addition, a module
does not qualify as an Independent Module but instead forms an essential part of
the Licensed Work if the module: (a) is embedded in the Licensed Work; (b) is
included by reference in the Licensed Work other than by a function call or a
class reference; (c) integrates code or data from the Licensed Work (d) reads or
includes data files included in the Licensed Work; (e) is designed specifically
to execute Licensed Work and parse the results of the Licensed Work; or (f) must
be included or contained, in whole or in part, within a file directory or
subdirectory actually containing files making up the Licensed Work, including
Modification Documentation required under this License (for example,
instructional guides, training materials, visual illustrations of the Subsequent
Work, etc.) for Subsequent Work Modifications and/or Changes for Distributed
Derivative Works or Derived Works as set forth in this License.

1.8.1 "INITIAL CONTRIBUTOR" means the Person or entity identified as the Initial
Contributor in the notice required by Part 1 of Exhibit A. and as set forth in
Part 1 and Part 2 of Exhibit B Individual Contributor License Agreement V2.0
(“ICLA”).] “Person” shall also have the meaning set forth in Paragraph 1.14 of
this License.

1.9. "INITIAL WORK" means the initial Source Code, object code (if any), data
files and documentation for the computer program identified in Part 2 of Exhibit
A, as such Source Code, object code, data files and documentation is distributed
under this License by the Initial Contributor.

1.10. "LARGER WORK" means a work that combines the Licensed Work or portions
thereof with Code, Data and Documentation contained in the Larger Work that is
not governed by this License.
 						
1.11. "LICENSED WORK" means the Initial Work and/or any Subsequent Work, any
Modifications, and any Documentation required under this License, in each case
including portions thereof.

1.12. "LICENSE NOTICE" has the meaning assigned in Part 4 of Exhibit A and in
Part 1 and Part 2 of Exhibit B (“ICLA”). 

1.13. "MODIFICATION" or "MODIFICATIONS" means any change to and/or addition to
the Licensed Work for which the work serves as the foundational basis for the
Modification and/or change, and for which any separation, removal or isolation
of the Licensed Work from the Modification(s) or Change(s), would render the
Modification and/or Changes immaterial to the effective purposes and application
of the Licensed Work. Modification includes without limitation, a Subsequent
Work, any related Modification Documentation in any form that describes,
illustrates, demonstrates, explains, instructs, shows or defines the
interrelationships of the Modifications to the Licensed Work or a Subsequent
Work under this License. By way of example, Modification Documentation includes
training instructions, any visual representations of the source code, use,
operation, inputs and outputs of the Modifications for the Licensed Work,
release notes, step by step guides, electronic and written presentation slide
decks, screenshots and screen capture illustrations, and written, electronic or
contextual examples of the Modifications presented in any form reduced to a form
of lab guide or lesson plan of Licensed Work Modifications and Changes. All such
Modifications and/or Changes of the Licensed Work shall be subject to the terms
of the Exhibit B (“ICLA”) attached. For greater clarity, an immaterial change or
modification to the Licensed Work, as referenced in this Section, is and shall
be determined by the Initial Contributor to the Licensed Work. 

1.14. "PERSON" means an individual or other legal entity, including a
corporation, partnership, unincorporated association or other body.

1.15. "RECIPIENT" means any Person who receives or obtains the Licensed Work
under this License (by way of example, without limiting the foregoing, any
Subsequent Contributor or Distributor).

1.16. "SOURCE CODE" means the source code for a computer program, including the
source code for all modules and components of the computer program, plus any
associated interface definition files, and scripts used to control compilation
and installation of an executable.

1.17. "SUBSEQUENT CONTRIBUTOR" means any Person that makes or contributes to the
making of any Subsequent Work, or a Modification or Change to the Licensed Work
and that distributes that Subsequent Work under this License along with required
Modification Documentation, Exhibit A and Exhibit B (“ICLA”) to at least one
Third Party. 

1.18. "SUBSEQUENT WORK" means a work that has arises or results from
modifications, changes to and/or additions to: (a) the Initial Work;  (b) the
Licensed Work;  (c) Any Derivative Work as defined in this License; (d) Any
Derived Work as defined in this License; (e ) any other Subsequent Work; or (d)
any combination of the Initial Work and any such other Subsequent Work, or
Licensed Work;

where such modifications, changes and/or additions originate from a Subsequent
Contributor. A Subsequent Work will "originate" from a Subsequent Contributor if
the Subsequent Work is or was a result of efforts by such Subsequent Contributor
(or any person as defined in this License, acting on such Subsequent
Contributor's behalf, or as, a contractor, agent, associate or other entity that
is engaged in any capacity by or under the direction of the Subsequent
Contributor). A Subsequent Work of a Subsequent Contributor under this License
shall contain the required Modification Documentation for the Subsequent Work as
defined in this License.  For purposes of clarity, A Subsequent Work under this
License shall also constitute and include a “Derivative Work” or a “Derived
Work,” for all Modifications and/or changes to the Licensed Work under Paragraph
1.13 of this License.

1.19. "SUPPLEMENT FILE" means a file, including any Modification Documentation
required under this License, distributed with the Licensed Work having a file
name “CHANGELOG.txt” and shall include all Documentation for and associated with
the Licensed Work, and any Modification Documentation required for any
Derivative Work or Derived Work as defined and set forth under this License.

1.20. "THIRD PARTY" means any third party. 

2. LICENSE.

2.1. COPYRIGHT LICENSE FROM INITIAL AND SUBSEQUENT CONTRIBUTORS.

(a) Subject to the terms of this License, the Initial Contributor hereby grants
each Recipient a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive copyright license to:

(i) reproduce, prepare derivative works of the Licensed Work as defined and set
forth in this License, prepare derived works from the Licensed Work, and
publicly display, publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the Initial Work
with all Documentation or Modification Documentation required under this
License; and

(ii) reproduce, publicly display, publicly perform, and distribute any
derivative works, and derived works (if any) prepared by Recipient with all
Modification Documentation required under this License;

in Source Code and Executable form, either with other Subsequent Work
Modifications, or on an unmodified basis, or as part of a Larger Work.

(b) Subject to the terms of this License, each Subsequent Contributor hereby
grants each Recipient a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive copyright
license to:

(i) reproduce, prepare derivative works of, and derived works from (if any,
publicly display, publicly perform, and distribute the Subsequent Work
Modifications of such Subsequent Contributor (also defined in this License as
Derivative Works or Derived Works), with all Modification Documentation required
under this License; and

(ii) reproduce, publicly display, publicly perform, distribute, and sublicense
any derivative works, and derived works (if any) prepared by Recipient with all
Modification Documentation required under this License; in Source Code and
Executable form, either with other Subsequent Work Modifications, or on an
unmodified basis, or as part of a Larger Work with all Modification
Documentation required under this License. 

(iii) For greater Distributor clarity, when a distribution or re-distribution of
the Licensed Work is made by a Distributor, and where no Subsequent Work
modifications or changes have been made to the Licensed Work under this License,
only the Documentation in compliance with this License, received by the
Distributor, for the Licensed Work is required to be given to a Person or entity
to whom the Licensed Work is distributed or re-distributed under this License. 

2.2. PATENT LICENSE FROM INITIAL AND SUBSEQUENT CONTRIBUTORS.

(a) This License includes a patent license pursuant to the patent terms in
paragraphs A, B, C, D and E from Part 6 of Exhibit A.

(b) If any Recipient receives or obtains one or more copies of the Initial Work
or any other portion of the Licensed Work under the patent license, then all
licensing of such copies under this License shall include the terms in
paragraphs A, B, C, D and E from Part 6 of Exhibit A  

2.3. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND DISCLAIMER.

Recipient understands and agrees that although Initial Contributor and each
Subsequent Contributor grants the licenses to its Contributions and Subsequent
Work Modifications as set forth herein, and no representation, warranty,
guarantee or assurance is provided by any Initial Contributor, Subsequent
Contributor, or Distributor that the Licensed Work does not infringe the patent
or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. Initial Contributor,
Subsequent Contributor, and each Distributor disclaims any liability to
Recipient for claims brought by any other Individual or Entity based on
infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise, in relation to the
Licensed Works. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses granted
hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility to secure any other
intellectual property rights needed, if any. For example, without limiting the
foregoing disclaimers, if a third party patent license is required to allow
Recipient to distribute the Licensed Work, it is Recipient's responsibility to
acquire that license before distributing the Licensed Work.

2.4. RESERVATION.  Nothing in this License shall be deemed to grant any rights
to trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets or any other intellectual
property of Initial Contributor, Subsequent Contributor, or Distributor except
as expressly stated herein and subject to the terms and conditions of the
attached Exhibit B Individual Contributor License Agreement V2.0 (“ICLA”) which
are incorporated into this License by reference.

3. DISTRIBUTION OBLIGATIONS.

3.1. DISTRIBUTION GENERALLY.

(a) All Distributors must distribute the Licensed Work in accordance with the
terms of the License, and must include a copy of this License (including without
limitation Exhibit A, and for Subsequent Works include Exhibit B (“ICLA”) V2.0,
all required Modification Documentation for any Derivative Works or Derived
Works under this License and the accompanying (“Supplement File) with each copy
of the Licensed Work or Subsequent Work distributed. In particular, this License
and all required Modification Documentation must be prominently distributed with
the Licensed Work in a file called "LICENSE.txt." In addition, the License
Notice in Part 4 of Exhibit A must be included at the beginning of all Source
Code files, and viewable to a user in any executable such that the License
Notice is reasonably brought to the attention of any party using the Licensed
Work.

3.2. EXECUTABLE DISTRIBUTIONS OF THE LICENSED WORK.

A Distributor may choose to distribute the Licensed Work, or any portion
thereof, including any Subsequent Work in Executable form (an "EXECUTABLE
DISTRIBUTION") to any third party, under the terms of Section 2 of this License,
provided the Executable Distribution is made available under and accompanied by
a copy of this License, (including required Modification Documentation for
Subsequent Works, Derivative Works or Derived Works under this License), and
accompanied by a copy of Exhibit B (“ICLA”) V.20, AND provided at least ONE of
the following conditions is fulfilled:

(a) The Executable Distribution must be accompanied by the Source Code for the
Licensed Work making up the Executable Distribution, and the Source Code must be
distributed on the same media as the Executable Distribution or using an
Electronic Distribution Mechanism; or

(b) The Executable Distribution must be accompanied with a written offer from
Distributor, valid for at least thirty six (36) months from the date of
distribution, to give any third party under the terms of this License, for a
charge no more than the cost of physically performing source distribution, a
complete machine-readable copy of the Source Code for the Licensed Work making
up the Executable Distribution, to be available and distributed using an
Electronic Distribution Mechanism, and such Executable Distribution must remain
available in Source Code form to any third party via the Electronic Distribution
Mechanism (or any replacement Electronic Distribution Mechanism the particular
Distributor may reasonably need to turn to as a substitute) for at least thirty
six (36) months from the date of Distribution.

For greater certainty, the above-noted requirements apply to any Licensed Work,
or portion thereof and to any Subsequent Work, Derivative Works and to any
Derived Works distributed to any third party in Executable form, whether such
distribution is made alone, in combination with a Larger Work or Independent
Modules, or in some other combination.

3.3. SOURCE CODE DISTRIBUTIONS.

When a Distributor makes the Licensed Work, or any portion thereof, or including
a Subsequent Work, available to any Person in Source Code form, it must be made
available under this License and a copy of this License (including required
Modification Documentation for Subsequent Works, Derivative Works or Derived
Works under this License) a copy of Exhibit A and a copy of Exhibit B (“ICLA”)
V.20 must be included with each copy of the Source Code, situated so that the
copy of the License, Exhibit A, Exhibit B (‘ICLA”) V2.0 and the Modification
Documentation (when required under this License), is conspicuously brought to
the attention of that Person. For greater clarification, this Section 3.3
applies to all distribution(s) of the Licensed Work and any Subsequent Work,
Derivative Works or Derived Works in any Source Code form. A Distributor may
charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, which charge shall be
no more than the cost of physically performing source distribution.

3.4. REQUIRED NOTICES IN SOURCE CODE. 

Each Subsequent Contributor must ensure that the notice(s) set forth in Part 4
of Exhibit A is included in each file of the Source Code for each Subsequent
Work originating from that particular Subsequent Contributor, if such notice is
not already included in each such file.  If it is not possible to put such
required Notice(s) in a particular Source Code file due to its structure, then
the Subsequent Contributor must include the “Required Notice(s)” in a location
(such as a relevant directory in which the file is stored) where a user would be
likely to look for the “Required Notice(s).”

3.5. NO DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS FOR INTERNALLY USED MODIFICATIONS.

Notwithstanding Sections 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4 of this License, Recipient may,
internally within its own corporation or organization use the Licensed Work,
including the Initial Work and Subsequent Works, and make Modifications for
internal operational use(s) within Recipient's own corporation or organization
(collectively, "INTERNAL USE MODIFICATIONS”), subject to Section 1.3.1 of this
License.  The Recipient shall have no obligation to distribute, in either Source
Code or Executable form, any such Internal Use Modifications made by Recipient
in the course of such internal use, except where required below in this Section
3.5. All Internal Use Modifications distributed to any Person, whether or not a
Third Party, shall be distributed pursuant to and be accompanied by the terms of
this License, Exhibit A, Exhibit B (“ICLA”) V2.0 and the  Modification
Documentation when required under this License,. If the Recipient chooses to
distribute any such Internal Use Modifications to any Person or Third Party,
then the Recipient shall be deemed a Subsequent Contributor, and any such
Internal Use Modifications distributed to any Person or Third Party shall be
deemed a Subsequent Work, Derivative Work or Derived Work originating from that
Subsequent Contributor, and shall from the first such instance of receipt,
control, use, transfer, or distribution, in any manner, become part of the
Licensed Work that must thereafter be distributed and made available to
Person(s) and Third Parties in accordance with the terms of Sections 3.1 to 3.4
inclusive, and in accordances with the terms of Section 1.13 of this License.

3.6. INDEPENDENT MODULES.

This License, subject to the terms of Section 1.8 of this License, shall not
apply to Independent Modules of any Initial Contributor, Subsequent Contributor,
Distributor or any Recipient, and such Independent Modules may be licensed or
made available under one or more separate license agreements, to the extent that
they are not deemed Subsequent Works, Derivative Works or Derived Works under
Section 1.8 of this License. 

3.7. LARGER WORKS.

Any Distributor or Recipient may create or contribute to a Larger Work by
combining any of the Licensed Work with other code not governed by the terms of
this License, and may distribute the Larger Work as one or more products.
However, in any such case, Distributor or Recipient (as the case may be) must
make sure that the notice requirements of this License set forth in Part 4 of
Exhibit A, Exhibit B (“ICLA”) V2.0 and the required Modification Documentation
under this License, are fulfilled for the Licensed Work portion of the Larger
Work.  

3.8. DESCRIPTION OF DISTRIBUTED MODIFICATIONS.

(a) Each Subsequent Contributor (including the Initial Contributor where the
Initial Contributor also qualifies as a Subsequent Contributor) must cause each
Subsequent Work created or contributed to by that Subsequent Contributor to
contain a file documenting the changes, in accordance with the requirements of
Part 1 of the Supplement File,  that such Subsequent Contributor made in the
creation or contribution to that Subsequent Work. 

(b) The Initial Contributor may at any time introduce requirements or add to or
change earlier requirements (in each case, the "EARLIER DESCRIPTION
REQUIREMENTS") for documenting changes resulting in Subsequent Works by revising
Part 1 of each copy of the Supplement File distributed by the Initial
Contributor with future copies of the Licensed Work, any Subsequent Work,
Derivative Work or Derived Work, so that Part 1 of the Supplement File then
contains new requirements (the "NEW DESCRIPTION REQUIREMENTS") for documenting
such changes. For greater certainty, the terms of Section 1.13, 1.18, 1.19 and
2.1 of this License shall apply to all Subsequent Work, Derivative Work and
Derived Work changes and modifications under the terms of Section 3 through
Section 3.8 of this License.

(c) Any Recipient receiving at any time any copy of an Initial Work or any
Subsequent Work, Derivative Work, or Derived Work under a copy of this License
(in each case, an "Earlier LICENSED COPY") having the Earlier Description
Requirements may choose, with respect to each such Earlier Licensed Copy, to
comply with the Earlier Description Requirements or the New Description
Requirements. Where a Recipient chooses to comply with the New Description
Requirements, that Recipient will, when thereafter distributing any copies of
any such Earlier Licensed Copy, include a Supplement File having a section
entitled Part 1 that contains a copy of the New Description Requirements,
Exhibit A, Exhibit B (“ICLA”) and required Modification Documentation under this
License.

(d) For greater certainty, the intent of Part 1 of the Supplement File is to
provide a mechanism (if any) by which Subsequent Contributors must document
changes that they make to the Licensed Work resulting in Subsequent Works. Part
1 of any Supplement File shall not be used to increase or reduce the scope of
the license granted in Section 2 of this License or in any other way increase or
decrease the rights and obligations of any Recipient. Further, the Initial
Contributor to this License, or its designee can at any time,  require a
Recipient to correct and change the Recipient’s insufficient or non-compliant
documentation procedures to comply with Part 1 of the Supplement File. Part 1 of
any Supplement File is binding on each Recipient of any Licensed Work to the
extent Part 1 sets out the requirements for documenting changes to the Initial
Work or any Subsequent Work, Derivative Work or Derived Work, which shall be
interpreted to include the documentation requirements set forth in Section 1.13,
1.18, 1.19 and 2.1 of this License. 

(e) An example of a set of requirements for documenting changes and
contributions made by Subsequent Contributor is set out in Part 5 of Exhibit A
of this License. Part 5 is a sample only and is not binding on Recipients,
unless (subject to the earlier paragraphs of this Section 3.8) those are the
requirements that the Initial Contributor includes in Part 1 of the Supplement
File with the copies of the Initial Work distributed under this License.

3.9. USE OF DISTRIBUTOR NAME.

The name of a Distributor may not be used by any other Distributor to endorse or
promote the Licensed Work or products derived from the Licensed Work, without
prior written permission.

3.10. ATTRIBUTION OF INITIAL CONTRIBUTOR.

(a) The  Initial Contributor's attribution information (the "ATTRIBUTION
INFORMATION") must be included at the beginning of each Source Code for the
Initial Work or any Subsequent Work, Derivative Works or Derived Works and must
include the following information: (a.) a copyright notice including the name of
the Initial Contributor.

(b) Each Recipient acknowledges that all trademarks, service marks and/or trade
names contained within Part 2 of the Supplement File distributed with the
Licensed Work are the exclusive property of the Initial Contributor and may only
be used with the permission of the Initial Contributor, or under circumstances
otherwise permitted by law, or as expressly set out in this License.  

3.11. For greater certainty, any description or attribution provisions contained
within a Supplement File may only be used to specify the nature of the
description or attribution requirements, as the case may be. Any provision in a
Supplement File that otherwise purports to modify, vary, nullify or amend any
right, obligation or representation contained herein shall be deemed void to
that extent, and shall be of no force or legal effect.

4. VERSIONS OF THE LICENSE.

4.1. NEW VERSIONS.

The Initial Contributor may publish revised and/or new versions of the License
from time to time. Each version will be given a distinguishing version number.

4.2. EFFECT OF NEW VERSIONS.

Once the Licensed Work, A Subsequent Work, Derivative Works, Derived Work or any
portion thereof has been published by Initial Contributor under a particular
version of the License, Recipient may choose to continue to use it under the
terms of that version. However, if a Recipient chooses to use the Licensed Work
under the terms of any subsequent version of the License published by the
Initial Contributor, then from the date of making this choice, the Recipient
must comply with the terms of that subsequent version with respect to all
further reproduction, preparation of Subsequent Works, Derivative Works, Derived
Works, public display of, public performance of, public or private distribution
of and sub-licensing by the Recipient in connection with the Licensed Work. No
one other than the Initial Contributor has the right to modify the terms
applicable to the Licensed Work, a Subsequent Work, and any Derivative Work or
Derived Works.

5. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.

5.1. GENERAL DISCLAIMER.

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS LICENSE, THE LICENSED WORK (INCLUDING
SUBSEQUENT WORK, DERIVATIVE WORK AND DERIVED WORK) IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS
LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT ANY REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY, GUARANTEE,
ASSURANCE OR CONDITION OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT,
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LICENSED WORK IS WITH RECIPIENT. SHOULD ANY
LICENSED WORK PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, RECIPIENT (NOT THE INITIAL
CONTRIBUTOR OR ANY SUBSEQUENT CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUMES THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY
SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS CLAUSE CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL AND
MATERIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY LICENSED WORK, SUBSEQUENT WORK,
DERIVATIVE WORK OR DERIVED WORK IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS
LICENSE INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THIS DISCLAIMER.

5.2. RESPONSIBILITY OF RECIPIENTS.

Each Recipient is solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of
using and distributing the Licensed Work, a Subsequent Work, any Derivative Work
or a Derived Work under this License and assumes all risks associated with its
exercise of rights under this License, including but not limited to the risks
and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss
of data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of
operations.

6. TERMINATION.  

6.1. This License shall continue until terminated in accordance with the express
terms herein.

6.2. Recipient may choose to terminate this License automatically at any time.

6.3. This License, including without limitation the rights granted hereunder to
a particular Recipient, will terminate automatically (without additional notice
or action) if such Recipient is in material breach of any of the terms of this
License. Without limiting the foregoing, any material breach by such Recipient
of any term of any other License under which such Recipient is granted any
rights to the Licensed Work, a Subsequent Work, Derivative Work or Derived Work
shall constitute a material breach of this License.

6.4. Upon termination of this License by or with respect to a particular
Recipient for any reason, all rights granted hereunder and under any other
License to that Recipient shall terminate.  

6.5. Upon any termination of this License by or with respect to a particular
Recipient, Sections 1., 2., 3., 4.1, 4.2, 5.1, 5.2,  6., 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4,
7.1, 7.2, 8., 8.1, 8.2, 8.3, 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, 9.4, 9.5, 9.6, 9.7 and 9.8. together
with all provisions of this License necessary for the interpretation and
enforcement of same, shall expressly survive such termination. For clarity,
Recipients who receive sub-licenses to the Licensed Work, a Subsequent Work or
any Derivative Work or Derived Works can only receive a properly granted License
constituting an “Other License,” if the Other License complies the terms of this
License. Otherwise, any sublicense (however received) that does not comply with
this License shall constitute an “Ineffective Other License.” and shall not be
valid for any purposes. The purpose of this provision is to prevent the
intentional or unintentional purported granting of an Ineffective Other License
to a sublicensee to avoid compliance with the required Modification
Documentation, Exhibit A, and Exhibit B (“ICLA”) V2.0 requirements of the
License.”  

7. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

7.1. IN NO EVENT SHALL ANY OF INITIAL CONTRIBUTOR, ITS SUBSIDIARIES, OR
AFFILIATES, OR ANY OF ITS OR THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES,
AND/OR AGENTS (AS THE CASE MAY BE), HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT DAMAGES,
INDIRECT DAMAGES, PUNITIVE DAMAGES, INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, SPECIAL DAMAGES,
EXEMPLARY DAMAGES, CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY OTHER DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
(INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, OR ANY OTHER LOSS
ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY RELATED TO THE USE, INABILITY TO USE, UNAUTHORIZED
USE, EXISTENCE OF ANY MALWARE, PERFORMANCE, OR NON-PERFORMANCE OF THE LICENSED
WORK OR ANY PART THEREOF OR THE PROVISION OF OR FAILURE TO PROVIDE SUPPORT
SERVICES, OR THAT RESULT FROM ERRORS, DEFECTS, OMISSIONS, DELAYS IN OPERATION OR
TRANSMISSION, OR ANY OTHER FAILURE OF PERFORMANCE), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) IN RELATION TO OR ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THIS
LICENSE OR THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE LICENSED WORK OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY
RIGHTS GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL
INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW
PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. THIS CLAUSE CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL AND MATERIAL
PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY LICENSED WORK, A SUBSEQUENT WORK, DERIVATIVE
WORK OR DERIVED WORKS IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS LICENSE
INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE LIMITATIONS SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 7.1.

7.2. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS LICENSE, EACH RECIPIENT SHALL NOT
HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING
WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE LICENSED
WORK OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO
LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO
THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION.

8. GOVERNING LAW AND LEGAL ACTION.

8.1. This License shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws
of the Governing Jurisdiction assigned in Part 3 of Exhibit A, without regard to
its conflict of law provisions. No party may bring a legal action under this
License more than one year after the cause of the action arose. Each party
waives its rights (if any) to a jury trial in any litigation arising under this
License. Note that if the Governing Jurisdiction is not assigned in Part 3 of
Exhibit A, then the Governing Jurisdiction shall be the State of Maryland.

8.2. The courts of the Governing Jurisdiction shall have jurisdiction, but not
exclusive jurisdiction, to entertain and determine all disputes and claims,
whether for specific performance, injunction, damages or otherwise, both at law
and in equity, arising out of or in any way relating to this License, including
without limitation, the legality, validity, existence and enforceability of this
License. Each party to this License hereby irrevocably attorns to and accepts
the jurisdiction of the courts of the Governing Jurisdiction for such purposes.

8.3. Except as expressly set forth in this License, in the event of any action
or proceeding brought by any party against another party under this License, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover all costs and expenses including
the reasonable fees of its attorneys in such action or proceeding in such amount
as the court may adjudge reasonable.

9. MISCELLANEOUS.

9.1. The obligations imposed by this License are for the benefit of the Initial
Contributor and any Recipient, and each Recipient acknowledges and agrees that
the Initial Contributor and/or any other Recipient may enforce the terms and
conditions of this License against any Recipient.

9.2. This License represents the complete agreement and understanding concerning
subject matter hereof, and supersedes and cancels all previous oral and written
communications, representations, agreements and understandings between the
parties with respect to the subject matter, terms and conditions of this
License.

9.3. The application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.

9.4. The language in all parts of this License shall be in all cases construed
simply according to its fair meaning, and not strictly for or against any of the
parties hereto. Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a
contract shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this License.

9.5. If any provision of this License is invalid or unenforceable under the laws
of the Governing Jurisdiction, it shall not affect the validity or
enforceability of the remainder of the terms of this License, and without
further action by the parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the
minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.

9.6. The paragraph headings of this License are for reference and convenience
only and are not a part of this License, and they shall have no effect upon the
construction or interpretation of any part hereof.

9.7. Each of the terms "including", "include" and "includes", when used in this
License, is not limiting whether or not non-limiting language (such as "without
limitation" or "but not limited to" or words of similar import) is used with
reference thereto.

9.8. The parties hereto acknowledge they have expressly required that this
License and notices relating thereto be drafted in the English language.

THE GENERAL LICENSE TERMS END HERE,  EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PREVIOUSLY
INCORPORATING  THE TERMS OF THE ATTACHED EXHIBIT A, EXHIBIT B (“ICLA”) AND ANY
SUPPLEMENT FILE(S) REFERENCED IN THIS LICENSE, ALL OF WHICH FORM A MATERIAL PART
OF THIS LICENSE.

ATTACHMENTS: 

EXHIBIT A IS INCORPORATED INTO THIS VOLATILITY CONTRIBUTORS PUBLIC LICENSE V1.0
BY REFERENCE 

EXHIBIT B (“ICLA”) IS INCORPORATED INTO THIS VOLATILITY CONTRIBUTORS PUBLIC
LICENSE V1.0 BY REFERENCE

SUPPLEMENT FILE AND ANY RELATED “CHANGELOG.txt” FILE(S) OF INITIAL CONTRIBUTOR
ARE INCORPORATED INTO THIS VOLATILITY CONTRIBUTORS PUBLIC LICENSE BY REFERENCE


VOLATILITY CONTRIBUTORS PUBLIC LICENSE Version 1.0 

EXHIBIT A - (Volatility Contributors Public License V1.0) 

PART 1: INITIAL CONTRIBUTOR AND DESIGNATED WEB SITE

The Initial Contributor is: The Volatility Foundation, Inc.

Address of Initial Contributor: The Volatility Foundation, Inc., 11654 Plaza
America Dr #774 Reston, VA 20190-4700

The Designated Web Site is: https://www.volatilityfoundation.org/

PART 2: INITIAL WORK

The Initial Work comprises the computer program(s) distributed by the Initial
Contributor having the following title(s): Volatility Framework Version 3.0. 

The date on which the Initial Work was first available under this License:
12/19/2018 

PART 3: GOVERNING JURISDICTION

For the purposes of this License, the Governing Jurisdiction is the State of
Maryland. 

PART 4: NOTICE  

This file was contributed to the Volatility Framework Version 3.    
Copyright (C) 2018 Volatility Foundation.  

THE LICENSED WORK IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THE Volatility Contributors
Public License V1.0("LICENSE") AS FIRST COMPLETED BY: Volatility Foundation,
Inc. ANY USE, PUBLIC DISPLAY, PUBLIC PERFORMANCE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION
OF, OR PREPARATION OF SUBSEQUENT WORKS, DERIVATIVE WORKS OR DERIVED WORKS BASED
ON, THE LICENSED WORK CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS LICENSE AND ITS
TERMS, WHETHER OR NOT SUCH RECIPIENT READS THE TERMS OF THE LICENSE. "LICENSED
WORK,” “RECIPIENT" AND “DISTRIBUTOR" ARE DEFINED IN THE LICENSE. A COPY OF THE
LICENSE IS LOCATED IN THE TEXT FILE ENTITLED "LICENSE.txt" ACCOMPANYING THE
CONTENTS OF THIS FILE. IF A COPY OF THE LICENSE DOES NOT ACCOMPANY THIS FILE, A
COPY OF THE LICENSE MAY ALSO BE OBTAINED AT THE FOLLOWING WEB SITE:
https://www.volatilityfoundation.org/license/vcpl_v1.0

Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing rights and limitations under the License.    PART 5:
MINIMUM SAMPLE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE DESCRIPTION OF DISTRIBUTED MODIFICATIONS

Each Subsequent Contributor (including the Initial Contributor where the Initial
Contributor qualifies as a Subsequent Contributor) is required to cause each
Modification/Change, Subsequent Work, Derivative Work, or Derived Work created
or contributed to by that Subsequent Contributor to contain a file documenting
the changes such Subsequent Contributor made to create that Subsequent Work,
required Modification Documentation under this License, Exhibit A, Exhibit B
(“ICLA”) and the date of any change.

PART 6: PATENT LICENSING TERMS

A. For the purposes of the paragraphs in this Part 6 of Exhibit A, "LICENSABLE"
means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent possible, whether at the
time of the initial grant or subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights
granted herein.

B. The Initial Contributor hereby grants all Recipients a world-wide,
royalty-free, non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual
property claims, under patent claim(s) Licensable by the Initial Contributor
that are or would be infringed by the making, using, selling, offering for sale,
having made, importing, exporting, transfer or disposal of such Initial Work or
any portion thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no patent license is granted
under this Paragraph B by the Initial Contributor: (1) for any code that the
Initial Contributor deletes from the Initial Work (or any portion thereof)
distributed by the Initial Contributor prior to such distribution; (2) for any
Modifications made to the Initial Work, Subsequent Work, Derivative Work,
Derived Work (or any portion thereof) by any other Person; or (3) separate from
the Initial Work (or portions thereof) distributed or made available by the
Initial Contributor.

C. Effective upon distribution by a Subsequent Contributor to a Third Party of
any Modifications made by that Subsequent Contributor, such Subsequent
Contributor hereby grants all Recipients a world-wide, royalty-free,
non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual property claims,
under patent claim(s) Licensable by such Subsequent Contributor that are or
would be infringed by the making, using, selling, offering for sale, having
made, importing, exporting, transfer or disposal of any such Modifications made
by that Subsequent Contributor alone and/or in combination with its Subsequent
Work, Derivative Work, Derived Work (or portions of such combination) to make,
use, sell, offer for sale, have made, import, export, transfer and otherwise
dispose of:

(1) Modifications made by that Subsequent Contributor (or portions thereof); and

(2) the combination of Modifications, by that Subsequent Contributor with its
Subsequent Work, Derivative Works, Derived Works (or portions of such
combination); (collectively and in each case, the "SUBSEQUENT CONTRIBUTOR
VERSION”).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, no patent license is granted under this Paragraph
C by such Subsequent Contributor: (1) for any code that such Subsequent
Contributor deletes from the Subsequent Contributor Version (or any portion
thereof) distributed by the Subsequent Contributor prior to such distribution;
(2) for any Modifications made to the Subsequent Contributor Version (or any
portion thereof) by any other Person; or (3) separate from the Subsequent
Contributor Version (or portions thereof) distributed or made available by the
Subsequent Contributor.

D. Effective upon distribution of any Licensed Work, Subsequent Work, Derivative
Work or Derived Work by a Distributor to a Third Party, such Distributor hereby
grants all Recipients a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license, subject
to third party intellectual property claims, under patent claim(s) Licensable by
such Distributor that are or would be infringed by the making, using, selling,
offering for sale, having made, importing, exporting, transfer or disposal of
any such Licensed Work distributed by such Distributor, to make, use, sell,
offer for sale, have made, import, export, transfer and otherwise dispose of
such Licensed Work, Subsequent Work, Derivative Work, Derived Work or portions
thereof (collectively and in each case, the "DISTRIBUTOR VERSION").
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no patent license is granted under this Paragraph
D by such Distributor: (1) for any code that such Distributor deletes from the
Distributor Version (or any portion thereof) distributed by the Distributor
prior to such distribution; (2) for any Modifications made to the Distributor
Version (or any portion thereof) by any other Person; or (3) separate from the
Distributor Version any Subsequent Work, Derivative Work, Derived Work or
portions thereof) distributed or made available by the Distributor.

E. If Recipient institutes patent or copyright litigation against another
Recipient (a "USER") with respect to a copyright or a patent applicable to a
computer program or software (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a
lawsuit, and whether or not any of the patent claims are directed to a system,
method, process, apparatus, device, product, article of manufacture or any other
form of patent claim), then any patent or copyright license granted by that User
to such Recipient under this License or any other copy of this License shall
terminate. The termination shall be effective as of the date such litigation is
filed. To be effective, any such notice of license termination must include a
specific list of applicable patents and/or a copy of the copyrighted work of
User that User alleges will be infringed by Recipient upon License termination.
License termination under this Paragraph (E.) is only effective with respect to
patents and/or copyrights for which proper notice has been given under this
License.


 //***EXHIBIT A ENDS HERE.***//


Exhibit B - INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTOR LICENSE AGREEMENT 
The Volatility Foundation Inc.  
Individual Contributor License Agreement ("Agreement") V2.0
license@volatilityfoundation.org 

Part 1. 

Please read this document carefully and keep a copy for your records. 

Voluntary Mutual Dual Shared Ownership Property Rights and Intellectual Property
License Agreement 

You (including each Contributor, Distributor, Licensee of the Licensed Work)
under the VOLATILITY CONTRIBUTORS PUBLIC LICENSE  1.0 which is incorporated into
this ICLA by reference, accept and agree to the following terms and conditions
for Your present and future Contributions submitted to the Foundation. In
return, the Foundation shall not use Your Contributions in a way that is
inconsistent with its nonprofit status and bylaws in effect at the time of the
Contribution. Except for the ownership property rights and license granted
herein to the Foundation under this ICLA and the terms of the Volatility
Contributors Public License V1.0, You reserve all right, title, and interest in
and to Your Contributions as set forth in this Agreement. 

1. Definitions. 

"You" (or "Your") shall mean the Contributor, any copyright owner or legal
entity authorized by the copyright owner that is making this Agreement with the
Foundation. For legal entities, the entity making a Contribution and all other
entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that
entity are considered to be a single Contributor. For the purposes of this
definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or
(ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or
(iii) beneficial ownership of such entity. 

"Contribution" shall mean any original work of authorship, including any
modifications, changes, and additions to an existing work, that is voluntarily
submitted by You to the Foundation for inclusion in, use with, or documentation
of, any of the projects, software, products, or computer code, whether used
singularly or in aggregate form, that is owned, licensed, used, assigned,
controlled or managed by the Foundation in any form (the "Work"). For the
purposes of this definition, "submitted" or “submission” means any form of
electronic, verbal, or written Communication sent, given or acknowledged by You
to the Foundation or its representatives, including but not limited to Your
participation in or communication on electronic mailing lists, source code
control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf
of, the Foundation for the purpose of discussing, improving, expanding or
complementing the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked
or otherwise designated in writing by You as "Not a Contribution." 

2. Grant of Dual Shared Ownership Copyright License. Subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement and the Volatility Contributors Public License 1.0
as amended hereafter from time to time, You hereby  grant to the Foundation a
perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
copyright license to use, reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly
display, publicly perform, sublicense, and to distribute Your Contributions and
such derivative works. 

You further agree to dual shared copyright ownership of all intellectual
property rights in any “contributed code” from You to the Foundation, including
all licensing, sublicensing and trademark rights (“ownership property rights”),
and in consideration of the mutual promises and obligations of the parties in
this Agreement, You hereby irrevocably assign, give and transfer to the
Foundation all current and future shared ownership rights of whatever kind in
Your contributed code, and all intellectual property rights – including by way
of example only and not by way of any limitations- all trademark, use, licensing
and relicensing rights; and 

You hereby irrevocably appoint the Foundation, its representatives and assigns
as Your attorney in fact for all purposes in any way directly or indirectly
related to the ownership, development, use, preservation, protection, licensing,
maintaining, defending and assertion of all assigned “ownership property rights”
(express and implied) under this Agreement, as revised from time to time, as
deemed necessary by the Foundation, in its sole discretion and business judgment
to pursue all related legal and equitable claims, actions and causes
(“Remedies”) of whatever nature to and protect, claim, litigate, compromise,
negotiate and settle all such Remedies against any person, party, entity or
organization in the Foundation’s own name and/or collectively on behalf of all
dual shared ownership contributors to any Foundation, however designated or
identified in any ICLA whether by name, project, version, license, or otherwise.

Notwithstanding any language to the contrary, You are not prohibited from
independently using Your own donated code for any of Your own third party
development purposes and any such use of Your own donated code shall not
constitute a violation of the dual shared copyright  ownership interests of the
Foundation, excepting that 1) You shall not change the terms of the ICLA
Agreement with the Foundation; and 2) You shall not, without express written
permission of the Foundation, grant nor execute any release(s), compromises or
settlements with any person, entity, organization, association or unauthorized
users (“third parties”) that does or may in any way interfere with, conflict
with or may be adverse to the ownership and copyright interests of the
Foundation, or in any way diminishes the value of Your contributed code to the
Foundation as reasonably determined by the Foundation, whether or not Your
contributed code has been combined, included in, used, or in any way aggregated
into any project, purpose, activity, product, service, software program
(“aggregated software”) - designed, developed, produced, used, licensed or
sponsored by the Foundation; and 3) You further agree that You will submit any
concerns pertaining to proposed third party code releases, compromise or
settlement (“Releases”) by You to the Foundation for review and response at
license@volatilityfoundation.org prior to entering into any agreement which may
conflict with Your rights and obligations under this Agreement. In the event of
an unresolved disagreement between You and the Foundation concerning the
validity of or adverse impact of any proposed release, compromise or settlement
by You, You voluntarily agree that the decision of the Foundation shall be final
and binding on You, your agents, assigns, successors and representatives as to
any such proposed Releases. 

Identifying Contributor Donations 

You agree that each separate Contributor Code Submission must be expressly
marked by You in the following way : 				
“Donated under Volatility Foundation, Inc. Individual Contributor Licensing 
Agreement”; or “Donated under VFI Individual Contributor Licensing Agreement”. 

You agree that any Donated Code submitted to the Foundation that is not	properly
marked as set-forth above in this Agreement shall be deemed for all purposes of
this Agreement as “Donated under Volatility Foundation, Inc. Individual
Contributor Licensing Agreement”. 

If You object to the Foundation’s designation of Your unmarked code or if any
Donated Code remains undesignated for any reason, it may be returned to the
Contributor as (“Rejected”) at the sole discretion of the Foundation, although
the Foundation shall have no obligation whatsoever to return any such Donated
Code, and such Rejected code shall not be considered as a valid Contributor Code
Donation to the Foundation under this Agreement. 

3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, You hereby grant to the Foundation a perpetual, worldwide,
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this
section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import,
and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent
claims licensable by You that are necessarily infringed by Your Contribution(s)
alone or by combination of Your Contribution(s) with the Work to which such
Contribution(s) was submitted. If any entity institutes patent litigation
against You or any other entity (including a cross-claim, counterclaim in a
lawsuit of any third party lawsuit for contribution or indemnification) alleging
that your Contribution, or the Work to which you have contributed, constitutes
direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to
that entity under this Agreement for that Contribution or Work shall terminate
as of the date such litigation is filed.   

4. You represent and agree that you are legally entitled or authorized to grant
the above license, individually and/ or as the authorized agent of the
intellectual property owner of Your Contribution. If your employer(s) has rights
to intellectual property that you create that includes your contributions, you
represent that you have received valid express permission to make Contributions
on behalf of that employer, that your employer has waived such rights for your
Contributions to the Foundation, or that your employer has executed a separate
Corporate  ICLA with the Foundation and understand that the Foundation will rely
on your representations in this Agreement and that the Foundation will not, and
has no affirmative obligation to conduct any due diligence concerning Your
representations in this Agreement. 

5. You represent that each of Your Contributions is Your original creation (see
section 8 for submissions on behalf of others). You represent that Your
Contribution submissions include complete details of any third-party license or
other restriction (including, but not limited to, related patents and
trademarks) of which you are personally aware and which are associated with any
part of Your Contributions. 

6. You are not expected to provide support for Your Contributions, except to the
extent You desire to provide support. You may provide support for free, for a
fee, or not at all. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
You provide Your Contributions on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR
CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without
limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON- INFRINGEMENT,
MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  

7. You agree to immediately notify the Foundation of any facts or circumstances
of which you become aware that may affect your Contribution or would at any time
make these representations inaccurate in any respect. 

8. You agree that this Agreement may be amended from time to time by  the
Foundation to accomplish the purposes, goals and objectives of the  Foundation
and that any electronic notification by web posting, Agreement amendment or
otherwise shall be deemed to be sufficient and valid notification to You under
this Agreement. 

9. You agree that this Agreement is executed in the State of Maryland and shall
at all times be governed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the
State of Maryland. 

 //***EXHIBIT B ENDS HERE.***//

